Project Structure


Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript.
Backend: Python with Flask.
Database: SQLite.


Steps
Set up Flask for backend routes.
Design HTML pages with CSS and JavaScript.
Connect the frontend to Flask with Fetch API to interact with the database.


File Structure
arduino
Copy code
EmployeeManagementSystem/
├── static/
│   ├── css/
│   │   └── style.css
│   └── js/
│       └── script.js
├── templates/
│   └── index.html
├── app.py
├── employee_management.db
└── database_setup.py


Step 1: Set Up the Backend (Flask)
Create the app.py file for managing backend routes and connecting to the SQLite database.

Step 2: Create the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript Files




Running the Project

Initialize the Database: Run database_setup.py to create the database and table.

Start the Flask Server: Run app.py by executing python app.py.

Open in Browser: Go to http://127.0.0.1:5000 to access the Employee Management System.

To initialize the database, you need to create the necessary table structure in your SQLite database (employee_management.db). Here’s a step-by-step guide on how to do that:

Step 1: Create the Database Setup Script
Make sure you have a database_setup.py script, which includes the code to create the database file and the employees table. Here’s what database_setup.py should look like:

Step 2: Run the Script
Open a terminal or command prompt.

Navigate to the folder where your database_setup.py file is located.

Run the following command:

bash
Copy code

python database_setup.py


Step 3: Verify the Database
After running the script, a file named employee_management.db should appear in your project directory. This file is your SQLite database, and it now includes the employees table, ready to store employee data.

Additional Verification (Optional)
If you want to double-check that the table has been created, you can use an SQLite client or a tool like DB Browser for SQLite to open employee_management.db and inspect its contents.

Once the database is initialized, you can proceed with running your Flask application (app.py) and start using the Employee Management System!



Now, you have a responsive web-based Employee Management System with a backend and database integration! You can add, view, and delete employees interactively.



